feat(source-maps): Add doc explaining Debug IDs (#13100)
getsentry/sentry-docs: docs/platforms/javascript/common/sourcemaps/troubleshooting_js/debug-ids/index.mdx

---
title: What are Debug IDs
sidebar_order: 7
---

This documentation provides an in-depth look at Debug IDs, explaining how they work and why Sentry recommends using them. Visit [Uploading Source Maps](https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/javascript/guides/react/sourcemaps/uploading/) if you're looking for our guides on how to upload source maps.

## Introduction

Modern web applications often use some kind of build process when using JavaScript. This build process takes some input JavaScript, transforms it in some way, then outputs JavaScript that is served alongside the website. Some example transformations include minifying JavaScript code (so the final JavaScript bundle is smaller and faster to load) or removing TypeScript types (only JavaScript can run on the browser).

> As a result, the JavaScript code running in production is typically not the same as the code written by the developer in the source editor. Instead, it has undergone several transformations, such as minification, transpilation, downcompilation, bundling, polyfilling, and others, aimed at improving performance and ensuring cross-browser compatibility. Some common tools that transform code in such ways are Babel, Vite, Webpack, Rollup, Terser or swc - which are often used by higher level tools like Next.js, Nuxt, Create React App and similar.

Author: ```suggestion
As a result, the JavaScript code running in production is typically not the same as the code written by the developer in the source editor. Instead, it has undergone several transformations, such as minification, transpilation, downcompilation, bundling, polyfilling, and others, aimed at improving performance and ensuring cross-browser compatibility. Some common tools that transform code in such ways are Babel, Vite, Webpack, Rollup, Terser, or SWC - which are often used by higher-level tools like Next.js, Nuxt, Create React App, and similar.
```

> As a result, the JavaScript code running in production is typically not the same as the code written by the developer in the source editor. Instead, it has undergone several transformations, such as [minification](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Minification), [transpilation](https://www.typescriptlang.org/), [downcompilation](https://babeljs.io/), [transformation](https://rollupjs.org/), [polyfilling](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Polyfill), and others, aimed at improving performance and ensuring cross-browser compatibility.

Author: Agree... especially the transpilation one. I couldn't find a trusful source that explains transpilation

> Stack traces are essential to debug errors, but stack traces that come from generated JavaScript are often unreadable or unusable! They look nothing like the code you wrote, you can’t connect them to your source code repository, and minified variables or function names make you lose context about what is happening.

Reviewer: Removing the last part of the sentence because source maps cannot solve that problem (yet).

```suggestion
Stack traces are essential to debug errors, but stack traces that come from generated JavaScript are often unreadable or unusable! They look nothing like the code you wrote and you can't connect them to your source code repository.
```

Author: do you mean "and minified variables or function names make you lose"? this is new to me. How come?

> To ensure Sentry (and other tools) can provide stack traces that are both readable and useful, you’ll want to generate and use [source maps](https://firefox-source-docs.mozilla.org/devtools-user/debugger/how_to/use_a_source_map/index.html). Source maps are files that map the transformed JavaScript back to the original code. This allows Sentry to trace the error to your original source, which means you’ll get stack traces that look like the code you wrote, not the code you generated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure Sentry (and other tools) can provide stack traces that are both readable and useful, you'll want to generate and use [source maps](https://firefox-source-docs.mozilla.org/devtools-user/debugger/how_to/use_a_source_map/index.html). Source maps are additional pieces information (often stored as files) that map the transformed JavaScript back to the original code. This allows Sentry to associate the error with your original source, which means you’ll get stack traces that look like the code you wrote, not the code you generated.
```

> To connect source maps to a JavaScript file, we relied on filenames, but these often were unreliable. For example, a new deploy of a source map with the same filename would mean the source mapping gets incorrectly applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To connect source maps to a JavaScript file, we relied on filenames, but these often were unreliable. For example, when you changed the subpath of where your javascript files are served it would mean that the filenames no longer match and the corresponding sourcemap would not be able to be found by Sentry.
```

> `//# source mappingURL=http://example.com/path/to/your/source map.map`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`//# source mappingURL=http://example.com/path/to/your/source-map.js.map`
```

> Given the url-based filename approach was unreliable, we came up with [Debug IDs](/platforms/javascript/sourcemaps/debug-ids#what-is-a-debug-id).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Given the url-based filename approach was unreliable, we came up with [Debug IDs](/platforms/javascript/sourcemaps/debug-ids#what-are-a-debug-ids).
```

Author: good catch here!

> Given the url-based filename approach was unreliable, we came up with [Debug IDs](/platforms/javascript/sourcemaps/debug-ids#what-are-a-debug-ids).

Author: ```suggestion
Given the url-based filename approach was unreliable, we came up with [Debug IDs](/platforms/javascript/sourcemaps/debug-ids#what-are-debug-ids).
```

## What are Debug IDs

Inspired by approaches in native language ecosystems, Debug IDs are globally unique ids that identify a transformed JavaScript file and its associated source map.

![Debug IDs example](./img/debug-ids.png)

When using sentry-cli or bundler plugins for Webpack, Vite, or Rollup, Debug IDs are deterministically generated based on the source file contents. Note that deterministic Debug IDs for esbuild are not currently supported.

> This approach is Sentry's recommended and most reliable method for associating minified JavaScript files with their original source code, making it easier to trace errors back to their source. As a result, **creating a release is no longer required**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This approach is Sentry's recommended and most reliable method for associating minified JavaScript files with their original source code, making it easier to trace errors back to their source. Because debug IDs will generally change across releasess if the file content is changed **creating a release is no longer required**. Release names were previously used to disambiguate sourcemaps with the same name across deployments.
```

<Alert>

If you want to learn more about the rationale behind Debug IDs, we suggest taking a look at our [engineering blog](https://sentry.engineering/blog/the-case-for-debug-ids).

</Alert>

## How Sentry uses Debug IDs

> To use Debug IDs, you need **version 7.47** or higher of one of our [JavaScript SDKs](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-javascript). Once you're using a supported SDK, the process works as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use Debug IDs, you need **version 7.47.0** or higher of one of our [JavaScript SDKs](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-javascript). Once you're using a supported SDK, the process works as follows:
```

Reviewer 2: technically for nextjs at least i think v8 is required

Author: should we hide this info then? I got it from somewhere

Reviewer: I wouldn't hide it, but maybe show it differently if the selected platform is Next.js. The nextjs sdk indeed supports sourcemaps from 8.0.0 onwards.

Author: yes but it can be that JavaScript is selected and it provides an overall info so I have to say about Next JS, right?

Author: nevermind

> 1. **A globally unique Debug ID is generated**: During the build process a Debug ID is generated, which is globally unique and ideally deterministic (typically a UUID).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **A globally unique Debug ID is generated**: During the build process, if you are using one of Sentry's Bundler Plugins or Sentry CLI a Debug ID is generated, which is globally unique and ideally deterministic.
```

2. **Debug IDs are embedded in minified files**: Each minified JavaScript file includes a special comment, such as `//# debugId=DEBUG_ID`, where `DEBUG_ID` is the unique identifier generated in the previous step.

3. **The same Debug ID is added to source maps**: Source maps also include the same Debug ID as a new attribute, linking the minified JavaScript file to its corresponding source map.

4. **Stack traces in Sentry link the Debug ID**: When an error occurs, Sentry's event contains the Debug ID, which allows Sentry to automatically link the error to the correct source map. This ensures the stack trace is resolved back to the original source code, providing you with clearer and more accurate debugging information—even if the JavaScript has been minified or transformed.

### Why use Debug IDs to uniminify your code?

> Unminifying your code is essential for effective debugging. While there are other [legacy ways](https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/javascript/sourcemaps/troubleshooting_js/legacy-uploading-methods/) to achieve this at Sentry, using **Debug IDs are recommended by Sentry** as it is the most reliable and deterministic method. By unminifying your code, you get much clearer stack traces when errors occur. Instead of seeing obfuscated code, you'll see the exact code you originally wrote, making it far easier to understand and resolve issues. Below are examples that demonstrates the difference:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unminifying your code is essential for effective debugging. While there are other [legacy ways](https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/javascript/sourcemaps/troubleshooting_js/legacy-uploading-methods/) to achieve this at Sentry, using **Debug IDs are recommended by Sentry** as it is the most reliable method. By unminifying your code, you get much clearer stack traces when errors occur. Instead of seeing obfuscated code, you'll see the exact code you originally wrote, making it far easier to understand and resolve issues. Below are examples that demonstrates the difference:
```

#### Bad Stack Trace
![bad stack trace example](./img/bad-stack-trace.png)

#### Good Stack Trace

> ![good stack trace example](./img/good-stack-trace.png)

Author: @smeubank I will improve this in a follow-up. will try to have something similar to what we display in that hydration issue

## Retention Policy

> Debug IDs have a retention period of _90 days_, using a _time to idle_ expiration mechanism.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Artifacts including Debug IDs have a retention period of _90 days_, using a _time to idle_ expiration mechanism.
```

This means that uploaded Debug IDs are retained for as long as they are actively being used for event processing.

> Once an id has not been used to process incoming events for at least 90 days, it will automatically expire and be eligible for deletion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once an ID has not been used to process incoming events for at least 90 days, it will automatically expire and be eligible for deletion.
```
